RacingBIKE: Improved Polynomial Multiplication and Inversion in Hardware
===

This repository contains the Verilog source code for the paper [*RacingBIKE: Improved Polynomial Multiplication and Inversion in Hardware*](https://tches.iacr.org/index.php/TCHES/article/view/9307/8873).

Features
---
RacingBIKE provides a new fast polynomial multiplier, a novel design for the polynomial inversion, and a united hardware design for the PQC scheme [Bit-Flipping Key Encapsulation (BIKE)](https://bikesuite.org/). The Verilog sources can be found in `src/` including a testbench (`src/TB_BIKE.sv`) and a package (`src/BIKE_package.sv`) to configure the implementation. Note, the Decoder is adapted from [FoldingBIKE](https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/897.pdf) and uses device-specific DSP instantiations for Xilinx Artix-7 FPGAs. 

The testbench expects testvectors to perform a behavioral simulation. We provide one set of testvectors for each security level which can be found in `testvectors`. The datasets were generated by the software reference implementation (see [https://bikesuite.org/](https://bikesuite.org/)). 

The configuration file defines all BIKE related parameters and implementation specific parameters. The following tables briefly describe the available parameters. 


**BIKE related parameters:**
BIKE parameter | Verilog parameter | Description
---------------|-------------------|--------------
$r$            | `R_BITS`          | Bit size of the used polynomials
$t$            | `T1`              | Decoding radius
$w$            | `W`               | *w/2* defines the weight of the private key polynomials
$l$            | `L`               | Shared secret size
$\tau$         | `TAU`             | Offset to determine the black and gray lists
$NBIter$       | `NBITER`          | Number of iterations of the decoder
threshold $a$* | `TH_F`            | Multiplication factor for the threshold computation
threshold $b$* | `TH_T`            | Constant term added in the threshold computation
threshold $c$* | `MAX_C`           | Minimum value taken by the threshold function

*We describe the threshold function by $\texttt{threshold}(S)=\text{max}(\lfloor a \cdot S + b \rfloor, c)$


**Implementation specific parameters:**
Verilog parameter | Description
------------------|--------------
`B_WIDTH`         | Bandwidth scaling parameter $b$ (tested for $b \in \{32, 64, 128\}$)
`INVERSION_STEPS` | Defines the step size $s$ of the inversion module
`BRAM_CAP`        | Defines the size (in bits) of the memory modules available on the target device


Quick Start
---
To use and experiment with the hardware design, you can use the provided TCL script `bike.tcl` which creates a project in Vivado 2020. To build the project, use the following instructions:

1. Open Vivado
2. Open the Tcl Concole (at the bottom left corner)
3. Navigate to the *RacingBIKE* folder, i.e., `cd path_to_folder/RacingBIKE`
4. Execute `source bike.tcl`
5. Vivado will create a new project in the *RacingBIKE* folder called *bike*
6. The created folder should contain the following files and folder:
    * bike.cache
    * bike.hw
    * bike.ip_user_files
    * bike.sim
    * bike.srcs
    * bike.xpr

Eventaully, the project is ready to use such that behavioral simulations and syntheses can be executed. The preconfigured design instantiates a light-weight BIKE accelerator for $r=12323$. To change the design parameters, you can use the provided BIKE package (see above). The applied testvectors used by the behavioral simulation can be adapted in the testbench given as parameters in the module declaration. 


Contact and Support
---
Please contact Jan Richter-Brockmann (jan.richter-brockmann@rub.de) if you have any questions, comments, if you found a bug that should be corrected, or if you want to reuse the Verilog code or parts of it for your own research projects.


Licensing
---
Copyright (c) 2021, Jan Richter-Brockmann. All rights reserved.

Please see LICENSE for further license instructions.


Publications
---
J. Richter-Brockmann, M. Chen, S. Ghosh, T. Güneysu (2022): [RacingBIKE: Improved Polynomial Multiplication and Inversion in Hardware](https://tches.iacr.org/index.php/TCHES/article/view/9307/8873). TCHES 2022


Acknowledgment
---
We would like to thank the anonymous reviewers from the CHES'22 artifact submission committee that provided us with useful comments and suggestions to improve the usability of our source code.
